---
layout: post
title: Writing for an audience of one in front of an audience of many
description: It’s like quantum physics, does the content change when it’s being perceived? 
tags: [personal]
---

The whole point of this blog is that I’m writing it for me. It’s a creative outlet where I can just slam some words down, get an idea out of my head and move on. Does it need to be a blog? Probably not, I’m sure I can just write in my Notes app and call it a day. But structuring it as a blog post helps me better flesh out my ideas, and I like the process of it all. Plus it’s fun to share the things you make - food tastes better with company or whatever. And so, I decide to post it publicly and share it with the world. This does lead to a big question though - am I really able to write freely knowing that I’m sharing it with the world? How much does it affect what and how I write?

I think the “how” part of the question is pretty easy to answer. A lot of the writing I’ve done for the last two years has been in a professional context, like technical documentation or formal pitches for work to be done. While that can be enjoyable in its own way, it’s also not terribly fulfilling. How I write is always tied to the fact that it’s for a wider audience - I have to make sure I’m not using shorthand or lingo that I know but maybe others don’t (shout out the k8s shorthand, you’re dumb but I can’t imagine life without you), all that kind of stuff. For this blog, I write however I like without worrying too much. I can have bad grammar, I can use bad words like “shit” or “fuck”, I can make in jokes by referencing things like The Biz. I can be expressive and retain my own identity. If you read this blog and you walk away going “I don’t really understand what I read”, that doesn’t matter to me. It’s self indulgent but that’s part of the fun of it all.

So we know that how I write isn’t really affected, but what about what I write? Theoretically, I could write about anything. It’s not like I’ve got an editor or some kind of approval process I go through, it’s just me. In practice, I know there’s stuff I can’t write about. Let’s say, for a completely theoretical and not based in reality at all idea, that I’d want to write about setting up my Plex server. As part of that process, perhaps a portion of it is the how I’d go about automatically downloading files and the iterative approach I’d taken to streamlining the download configurations. The bit about downloading media from unofficial sources isn’t legal, and the last thing I want to do is publish an article to a website containing my full name announcing that I’m doing something illegal. Thankfully it’s a purely theoretical idea and not at all what I do. But it serves as a great example of how even though I’m writing for me, I have to be very aware that more people than just me will be reading it.

Another thing I’m probably not going to write about is anything overly personal. I don’t think I’d want to be vulnerable in a place which people can look back at it later. Like, I wouldn’t want to post about some shit I’m going through at the time and then for it to be a permanent record online. I think that kind of personal stuff is better suited for the Notes app, or even just talking about it with my friends. Plus, it’s not really the whole vibe of this thing anyway. It’d be weird to see something extremely personal in the “more articles from this blog” section at the bottom of a rant about review scores or whatever other dumb thing I write about.